.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md, before:

---
name: Feature request
about: Suggest new functionality for this project.
title: ''
labels: ''
assignees: ''

---
**Please do not report security vulnerabilities here**. The [Responsible Disclosure Program](https://auth0.com/whitehat) details the procedure for disclosing security issues.

**Thank you in advance for helping us to improve this library!** Your attention to detail here is greatly appreciated and will help us respond as quickly as possible. For general support or usage questions, use the [Auth0 Community](https://community.auth0.com/) or [Auth0 Support](https://support.auth0.com/). Finally, to avoid duplicates, please search existing Issues before submitting one here.

By submitting an Issue to this repository, you agree to the terms within the [Auth0 Code of Conduct](https://github.com/auth0/open-source-template/blob/master/CODE-OF-CONDUCT.md).

### Describe the problem you'd like to have solved

> A clear and concise description of what the problem is. Ex. I'm always frustrated when [...]

### Describe the ideal solution

> A clear and concise description of what you want to happen.

## Alternatives and current work-arounds

> A clear and concise description of any alternatives you've considered or any work-arounds that are currently in place.

### Additional context

> Add any other context or screenshots about the feature request here.

Commit message:

Setup pull-request and issue templates (#192)

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md, after:

---
name: Feature request
about: Suggest an idea or a feature for this project
title: ''
labels: feature request
assignees: ''
---

<!--
**Please do not report security vulnerabilities here**. The Responsible Disclosure Program (https://auth0.com/whitehat) details the procedure for disclosing security issues.

Thank you in advance for helping us to improve this library! Your attention to detail here is greatly appreciated and will help us respond as quickly as possible. For general support or usage questions, use the Auth0 Community (https://community.auth0.com/) or Auth0 Support (https://support.auth0.com/). Finally, to avoid duplicates, please search existing Issues before submitting one here.

By submitting an Issue to this repository, you agree to the terms within the Auth0 Code of Conduct (https://github.com/auth0/open-source-template/blob/master/CODE-OF-CONDUCT.md).
-->

### Describe the problem you'd like to have solved

<!--
> A clear and concise description of what the problem is. Ex. I'm always frustrated when [...]
-->

### Describe the ideal solution

<!--
> A clear and concise description of what you want to happen.
-->

## Alternatives and current work-arounds

<!--
> A clear and concise description of any alternatives you've considered or any work-arounds that are currently in place.
-->

### Additional information, if any

<!--
> Add any other context or screenshots about the feature request here.
-->
